>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So let's talk
about CSharp Syntax just a little bit.
We're gonna touch on the very basics,
just a couple of things that
we need to know as we get in.
First of all, because it's a C-derived
language, it loves its curly braces and
it loves its semicolons.
I know in JavaScript,
semicolons are technically optional,
I like semicolons and
I like that C-sharp makes me use them.
So all of these, well, let's take
a look at this particular program here.
Starting at the top this
is a class declaration.
Again, as we get into the
further into the course,
we will talk a lot about classes and
we'll talk about their place in the .net
kinda world, in the Csharp world.
And you notice that this class
is denoted by curly braces here.
So these curly braces denote
that this is a block of code.
So this is all of the stuff
that's in internal class program.
If we were to say, for example, copy and
paste this method, it's gonna complain and
hey, there's already a method named
main that has the, these arguments.
Again, we'll get into method
arguments a little bit later.
But just know the main thing is, is that
curly braces are everywhere in Csharp.
And I like curly braces I
like the explicit kind of,
this is the block of code that we
should execute based on this statement.
Of course,
we have to talk about semicolons.
Semicolons are denote
the end of all of the lines
that have statements on them that,
frankly, require them.
So if you do exclude a semi colon, for
instance, your IDE will happily tell you
with a little squiggly that,
hey, this is expected.
So we're actually gonna look here and
we'll see that if you if there's more to
this syntax error, that Visual Studio code
will happily report that to you,
and so will the .net tooling.
If I go ahead and command shift tilde and
try dotnet run, you'll
see that the same errors are outputted
here right here semi-colon expected.
So a lot of statements
have to end in semicolon.
Things like method declarations
they don't, program they don't.
That's just going to confuse it.
But the stuff inside the Blocks
that's actually doing the work,
we need some semicolons.
Worth noting, you can also view
problems here inside of the IDE.
I will say that there have been
a couple of times as I've gone in my
Visual Studio Code journey that if
the problem doesn't show up here,
a restart of Visual Studio Code
usually kicks it into gear.
Worth noting.
>> Student 1: Why does internal
not have to be public or private?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That
is a great question.
And we will talk about accessibility
modifiers as we get into the course,
especially as we talk about classes.
It's just the I'm not sure
why it has to be internal.
I assume that private is too private,
as it were,
elements defined in a name space cannot be
explicitly declared as private or okay.
I'll take its word for
it I've honestly never tried that.
I think that this is the minimum amount of
visibility required for .net to actually
run the program, but we will talk
about private internal protected.
We'll talk about all those accessibility
keywords as we talk about specifically
classes more, because those become
really important to talk about there.
We're gonna talk about
kind of the styling.
Let's say,
I guess values that C sharp holds,
you can absolutely declare your
methods like this, if you prefer,
you could even I don't think
you can lowercase main,
because I think it will complain that
it says it doesn't have an entry point.
I've never tried so, let's see.
Dotnet run yeah, it doesn't contain a
static main method, but you'll see things.
We will talk about kind of the,
way things are named and typed.
Microsoft has a specific style guide.
If you don't like this on a separate line,
you absolutely don't have to do that.
And in fact, you can configure most of
your IDEs to avoid that if you prefer,
it's one of those stylistic decisions
that's just personal and private,
I prefer the C sharp way, but or
whatever ecosystem I'm working in.
But you do, you
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I do wanna
mention that while the language
is not white space sensitive.
This is a perfectly valid
program that will run, nope,
keeps doing that dotnet run.
Perfectly valid program white
space is encouraged, useful.
White space is encouraged,
just for readability purposes,
like any other language, but it is not
strictly speaking, white space sensitive.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Some other
things that I wanted to mention.
This is a single line comment.
So this is basically a way of commenting
out, what we call commenting out code.
So this code will not be run or
interpreted by the compiler.
It's useful for leaving notes, especially
in particularly tricky pieces of code.
There are multi-line comments as well,
like any good C derived language.
It is /asterisk, asterisk/.
You can see, so you can have
comments on multiple lines as well.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So we went
over a few of the common syntax errors.
It will complain, of course,
if you don't have semi colons,
you see that I don't have
this unclosed comment.
So now the IDE is hey,
where are my other curly braces?
It will tell you if you have
a an unmatched curly brace when you're
especially when you're refactoring
those big nested statements, and
you have a lot of curly braces there,
and all of a sudden,
you're missing one very frustrating.
But that's a particular
thing that's a common one,
especially among new developers.
It's worth mentioning as
well that case does matter.
It is a case sensitive, and
I think most languages are case sensitive.
And fun fact, vb.net, is not,
and it is a point of frustration in
many ways as a as a C sharp developer.
I really don't know how that,
I don't know why that is, but vb.net,
not case sensitive.
Very strange, but you can't write Console in
lowercase can't write Console in
lowercase because it will complain.
Boom but you can,
it also knows the c sharp dev kit is intelligent
enough to be able to kind of suggest
sometimes some fixes for that.
Some common ones, next, we will
talk about variable declaration and
kinda talk about all the little pieces,
one little piece at a time as they say.
>> Student 1: There was somebody asking,
is there a MDN like reference for C sharp?
Something that's easy to like look up?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yes,
I would say that the Microsoft Docs,
I'm just gonna
Google Microsoft Docs C Sharp and
I'm gonna just open these up and just say
that I think that their documentation
is probably among the best among
their peers, Google, Amazon.
I think their
documentation is super solid.
A lot of it contributed by the community.
A lot of this documentation
was written by the community.
They also employ people to just sit and
write docs all day that's all they do.
And so
absolutely this is learn.microsoft.com.
I'm used to docs.microsoft.com as well.
But yeah,
there's a huge swath of documentation and
will go into way more detail than
I could in a course like this.
That said there are some things
where I'm I'll mention it and
then I'll mention the feature and
then I'll link back to a Microsoft doc.
Like, you really should read these because
their docs are supremely good again
some of the best in the industry,
in my opinion.